

Every few weeks, I see someone tweet a link to a blog post or an essay with a comment like “Old but still
good!” The linked texts are occasionally up to a year or two old—more often only a few months. There are a
few kinds of knowledge that age this rapidly: technical advice regarding software, specifications, or gadgets
that are constantly updated; the fast-cycle froth of “breaking news”; event notices. Nearly everything
else is—should be—as relevant in a month or a year as it was when written. But online, as in bookshops and
at the movies, the new gets a halo. 

Why the extra shine? Maybe it’s the conversation that blooms around a new thing, more visibly now that it
happens in part on public networks, and then fades. Maybe the new gains special value by becoming a fresh node
in that network. Maybe it’s because the new presents no guilt: we can’t possibly have read it, so we’re
not behind. (All that “old” stuff? Too much to think about. Declare bankruptcy and move on.)

Maybe we just want to give each other fresh stimuli.

Alan Jacobs, one of my favorite thinkers on the internet, [writes about the loss of
wisdom](http://www.theamericanconservative.com/jacobs/the-old-ones/) on a (slightly) longer scale—a single
human life:

> The commemorations have been vigorous—He invented the mouse! He gave
> [the mother of all demos](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Mother_of_All_Demos)! — but what most of them
> ignore is the uncomfortable fact that nobody paid attention to Doug Engelbart for the last thirty years or
> more of his life, and in a Silicon Valley culture awash with money [he could get no one to fund his
> ideas](http://www.siliconvalleywatcher.com/mt/archives/2013/07/the_shocking_truth_ab.php).

Jacobs writes incisively about what that loss means in this one scenario—we’ve made our move into the
cloud’s Great Mainframe in the Sky without one of the keenest minds from the mainframe-terminal era of
computing—but his post is ultimately about larger losses. His lament is a familiar one, but maybe that
underlines his point: “I’m disconcerted to see how utterly uninterested those young people are in learning
what previous generations thought or why they thought it.”

I’m not sure how much of the lack Jacobs points to is a genuine lack of interest and how much is that there
aren’t many popular frames for understanding connections between earlier conversations and our own. As we
move more fully onto networks, a lot of our major cultural arguments are stuck on bookshelves in dark
rooms—but have a look at conversations that combine the bookish and networked worlds and it’s like
stepping into a surprise deep end: the “future of the book” world zips so easily between screens and
scrolls and between McLuhan and monasteries that it’s easy to get jaded about yet another dive into the
Gutenbergian past intended to somehow illuminate our near future. But I think they’re onto something, and
that their counterparts in every other facet of our online lives are worth seeking out and celebrating. We
have better things to do than inventing shinier wheels.

Artists are often especially good at making these connections in vital, non-didactic ways. This [Janelle
Monáe video](http://t.co/H4TDot7Bwl)’s had me spellbound for days. The audio production pulls from all over
the 70s, 80s, and 90s and the visuals refract a cartoon 60s through the future-clean
Apple-Store-meets-cyborg-Nation-of-Islam aesthetic we know from Monáe’s other work. The video isn’t brand
new, though—it came out in May, and I missed it, buried in work. Old but still good.