

# The Best Parenting Advice You Will Ever Get

I am 30 years old and holding a urine-soaked stick with a pink line and freaking the fuck out. 

The most amazing thing about that little tableau is that, unlike most of the stupid situations I’ve found
myself in during my less-than-model life, there are quite a few of you nodding along right now and thinking
“Yep. Been there.”

I am 30 years old, sitting on my front stoop, holding this stick in one hand and a cigarette in the other
hand. I am coming to the realization that I am about to be responsible for another human life. That I should
probably put the cigarette out. And I am trying to figure out if I am ok with this.

And I had better figure this shit out very quickly, because inside the house is another human being who is
undoubtedly freaking out even more than I am. And I need to go reassure her.

I think of my own childhood. Which wasn’t great. And I think of my mother, my father, how they treated each
other, and in turn, how they treated their kids. And I don’t want that. But I am so afraid I would raise my
own child the only way I’ve seen a child be treated. And it freaks me out. 

Which makes me realize I am already thinking of raising this child. And I picture us walking along together
with my hand on this kid’s head. And it feels right.

And I realize I can do this. That I want to do this. And I decide that for this to work I cannot run away, I
cannot give up, I cannot make a half-assed effort. I can fuck up, but only if I hang around to fix it. And for
that to happen I need the relationship to be between me and this new person-to-be-named-later — something
new. We will create our own thing. And it won’t be modeled on anything that came before.

So I forgive my parents, put out my cigarette, and go inside.