

You said hi as I made my way up the stairs at Brighton’s Duke of York Picture House. You were looking
forward to my talk, you said, especially the part about [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com), and I nodded and smiled
and hoped that you couldn’t see on my face the fact that, with an hour or so to go, I hadn’t actually
written that part yet.

I made my way upstairs again after my talk and bumped into you again. You said you’d enjoyed my talk, and we
headed to the balcony and chatted and you told me your name, which I’ve since misplaced because I was busy
basking in that feeling of being done with a talk that had been occupying my brain for weeks.

And then you asked if you could ask me a question and you seemed very careful about it and I said sure of
course you can, and you said:

> “Are you ever
> intimidated?”

Yes. Oh god, yes. A thousand times yes, I am intimidated every day by everything I don’t know and everything
I need to learn and all of the people I am so lucky to know who are so much smarter than me. Anyone who was up
on that stage or any other stage who tells you they’re never intimidated is either lying or broken. I
don’t know how it is that I get to fly to faraway cities, get a microphone clipped to my shirt, and talk for
20 or 30 or 40 minutes and then when I’m done talking, people clap. I know for certain it’s not because I
have all the answers, or even more than a few of them.

And you seem relieved to hear this, and even though my foot is broken and I have laryngitis and I’m kind of
ready to be back home, I am so damn grateful right then that I get to do what I do, because every now and then
I get to let someone like you in on the secret that there’s not all that much that stands between the people
on the stage and the people in the audience, we’re all just normal people with normal-people insecurities,
glad when someone says hello on the stairs.