

I made a website the other day. You might say “but don’t you make websites every day?” Not so much,
actually. I *work* on websites every day, yes, in a manner of speaking, but only insofar as the end product of
my effort is consumed via a web browser by visiting a URL. It’s so rarely, though, that I actually make
websites that I had to rely on my editor to give me the basics of an HTML page. I just about stopped
breathing, hours later, when I pulled my work up in IE and saw that everything was utterly broken, until I
realized my editor had left out the oh-so-magical `<!doctype html>` incantation. Oops.

It’s been so long since I’ve made a website that I sort of lost track of how much better life has gotten
in the last few years. Do you remember what we used to do to get rounded corners and fancy fonts? Do you
remember what it used to mean to decide to change the width of a layout or to globally tweak a particular
shade of green?

Things were terrible and wonderful back then. In some ways I feel bad for people who have arrived at this
amazing profession in the last few years. They’ll never know what it was like to read about [CSS sliding
doors](http://alistapart.com/article/slidingdoors) for the first time — a concept so transformative back in
2003 that it makes me a little wistful to see the gentle reminder at the top of the article now that this
“no longer reflects best practices.” We spent our days hacking our way to pixel perfection back then, and
it was inexcusable and intoxicating all at the same time.