

# A Quick Follow-up on the Importance of the Language We Choose

In my [recent article](http://the-pastry-box-project.net/angelina-fabbro/2013-june-11/) on The Pastry Box I
specifically chose to use the term ‘impostor phenomenon’ instead of ‘impostor syndrome’ throughout the
entire article. In most of the peer-reviewed research I read I saw this reflected as ‘impostor
phenomenon’, but it has been pointed out to me that ‘imposter syndrome’ is used fairly often to describe
the same thing.

In fact, the latter is used colloquially far more often than ‘impostor phenomenon’.

I made the choice to use ‘phenomenon’ because the word ‘syndrome’ carries with it a host of negative
stigma that is wholly unproductive. The term ‘phenomenon’ in this case is at worst a fairly neutral term.
Whether or not we recognize that ‘syndrome’ is, in fact, a clinical term that could apply here is
orthogonal to the impact that using the term has on those experiencing these feelings, emotions, and
experiences.

It has negative stigma. Negative stigma is not helpful to anyone.

Whether we like it or not, words take on cultural additives as we use them. A word may begin it’s career as
an idea meaning one thing, but eventually evolve to mean multiple things or something else entirely.

We are all very impressionable. Unconsciously so, even those of us who like to think that we have a thick
skin. You cannot escape the unconscious processing of subtle meaning, if you think you can you are a fool. If
anyone is interested in talking about this particular point — there is a host of cognitive science research
waiting for you.

That being said, the words we use are immensely important, and so I implore you to use the term ‘impostor
phenomenon’ when describing these experiences. It makes a difference.

Whenever I hear someone complain that advocates of careful language are trying to be ‘too politically
correct’, ‘sugar coated’, or ‘too nice’ I feel sorry for them. I feel sorry for them because they
don’t understand the difference these things make, and worse they don’t understand how vulnerable they
are. They lack the self-awareness that will set them free if they’re ever upset about something someone has
said about them.

“Sticks and stones will break my bones but names will never —”

Wait, wait. I know this one. Sticks and stones will break my bones. Those will heal up, because biology can do
wonderful things like that. But words? “Names will never hurt me” is usually how the rest goes. Those
words can still be with you months, years, decades later. They can torment you when you’re trying to fall
asleep, apply for a job, or make a new friend.

Words have power because they have meaning: treat them with respect, and treat others with respect
accordingly.