

Ever since smartphones have become the new normal, it’s a common sight to see people engrossed in them. You
know the stance: head down, eyes mesmerized by a four-inch screen of a world that exists intangibly. It is a
world that connects the threads of our lives while it simultaneously disregards the immediate environment and
context.

Paying attention — I mean, *really* paying attention — requires more meticulous effort than it used to.
Because now, our superficial interest is diverted to distractions that we want to direct it to, rather than
allowing simple happenstance to dictate where our true attention should go. 

A few losses come to mind as a result. There are likely more, but these three are at the forefront of my mind.


 *  Serendipity and chance

 *  Respect

 *  Safety

 *  __Serendipity and chance__

Before we had smartphones to sneak away into, people were present in their environments. Sure, we’ve been
immersed in various portable music players and books for a while now, but smartphones are multifaceted
attention hogs. 

Allowing yourself to be open gifts small, quiet moments that may brighten your day. There is a tangible
feeling when you’re involved in your community, at the local level. You could very well meet your next
partner in crime. You may engage spontaneously in conversation during a flight with your seat neighbor. Or,
what often happens with me and my wife, we find money on the street. True story.  

 *  __Respect__

I don’t mind seeing your smartphone or device sitting on a table — I don’t like the bulkiness in my
pocket either. However, I do mind if it is face up and silly notifications are turned on. That feature was
disabled the first day I purchased my smartphone, and I question why people need it. Is the fear of missing
out such a compelling reason to not give thoughtful consideration to the wonderful person in front of you?


I see your eyes, they’re glancing at that screen. 

Notifications should be nonintrusive and passive rather than the other name we give them: alerts. Your friend
posting a photo of their coffee or updating their existential state of being is, nine times out of ten, not
earth-shattering news. 

 *  __Safety__

This is a practical and an important point. Smartphones are expensive. Smartphones are easy targets for
thieves. I’ve seen phones snatched from submerged owners or even casual tourists walking around the city
looking at Google Maps. It’s a shame that we live in a time when private property isn’t respected and that
thievery exists, but it does. Don’t be the person who’s shouting, “Hey! That’s my phone!” while
chasing someone rapidly through the streets of the city.

Or that person with their head down and BAM! Hello, tree/light pole/other pedestrian. 

Then there’s the ridiculous looking-at-your-phone-while-crossing-the-street individuals. Fancy being hit by
a car? I certainly don’t. As my dad is fond of saying when people seem reckless with their lives, “So
fatalistic!” 

When I was a teenager and then in my early 20s, the only way to get in touch with someone was by picking up a
phone and purposely calling them. It made the connection deeper in comparison — hearing the quality of their
voice and tone. And before three-way calling or call waiting, you were locking the phone down for just one
person at a time. I recall scrambling for coins or phone cards to call friends at pay phones when I wanted to
hear their voice or bug them or just catch up. 

Absence makes the heart grow fonder. Fondness is all I seek.

I’m not advocating to go back to those times, believe me. I am advocating for basic norms of respect for the
people around you. 

Let’s respect each other, engage and be in the moment. Let us enjoy the presence of each other’s company
and use the absence of technology to get into a conversation. Practice your speaking skills. Enjoy the moment
— your moments. The quiet, the people watching, taking in your surroundings and letting things happen to you
rather than turning your brain to the ON position all the time. OFF isn’t an idle matter — it’s a state
of being.