

I’ve recently returned from a week-long Whisky tour of Scotland. I was already a fan of Scotch Whisky before
the trip, however being taught the extensive processes involved — learning each distillery’s story and
the individuality in each of their products — has changed my perception and appreciation of many whiskys
and, in turn, informed me of *why* I like or favour others. 

It all served to remind me of one extremely important factor in selling any product: *storytelling*.

Offering a customer (or client) a finished product without sharing any part of the story that led up to it can
lead to any of a number of issues on a project:

 *  __Requests to see other options__

This is due to them asking themselves “Well, what other options are there? Is this really the *best*
one?”

Sharing your process enables them to see what other options (*including* the awful clichéd ones that you
explain as such) you have decided not to pursue, and why. You don’t need to share fully worked up
designs — just sketches, layouts, or thoughts.

 *  __A lack of respect for you and your work__

Many clients may presume that this is all you have done, therefore it was somehow ‘easy’ or ‘quick’
for you to get to this conclusion. They’re paying you for a service, and they want to know that you have
spent a good amount of time on their project.

If you jumped straight from a brief or discussion to a full comp, or coded up version of a design for example,
what is that client meant to think?

Include them in your thinking, share your process *and* progress (even if that’s just in word format for the
most part), make sure that they’re aware of your time spent on something. Respect is very much a two-way
thing for a successful relationship.

 *  __They may even want to pay less__

I could talk about time-based invoicing versus value-based pricing here, however it’s not really about that.


Even if you’re at a point in your career where you can go to a client with one solution and say “take it
or leave it”, I would still argue that sharing the story of how you ended up at that point is imperative to
gain the respect that is needed for the client to be *happy* to pay their invoice(s).

 *  __The client’s inability to explain their own brand’s project, meaning, or feel__

Sharing the story — and explaining your work properly to a client — enables them to become their
own ambassador of that work. This is crucially important, as you will likely not always be around to support
that client. 

Giving them a story to tell, or a one-liner of why something is the way it is, I have found to be one of the
most successful aids for a client and their piece of mind.

Storytelling. We all grew up around it. We all have a story to tell. Don’t let it stop when it comes to your
work.