

Memorable information. Even the label is ironic.

It has now got to the stage where, to access my online bank accounts I need to remember the following:

For my personal account…

 *  __User ID__

Something given to me that I cannot change. I use my preferred browser to remember this, and as a back-up (as
we all know how we cannot rely only on this due to different devices) I keep a scrappy card in my purse that
my bank supplied me with when registering for online banking. My User ID is written on it — luckily, I used
a biro.

 *  __Password__

As it says on the tin. Something we expect, which can be easily remembered as we set it ourselves. 

 *  __Memorable info__

Three digits from my memorable info required. See below on how easy it is to forget such a thing you set at
*sometime* in the past.

 *  __Security number__

Something I discovered when trying to change my memorable info to something more… memorable. After
requesting the change online, I then got told to call the bank and quote a

 *  __Reference number__ (something different again, given to me then and there on the screen). I then got
told on the phone that I would be sent a

 *  __Security number__ in the post — when I receive it, I should call back.  

Four days went by before I received the Security number (as it was over a weekend), meaning I could not access
either my personal or business account for that time. I then called — had to give the reference number (I
hadn’t written this down so had to request to change my memorable info again, just to get it), and security
number, before then being told I could access my online accounts again. 

Oh, and I need to ‘memorise my security number and throw it away’.

For my business account (in brief)…

 *  __User ID__

 *  __Password__

 *  __Pin number to be used via a card reader supplied by the bank__

 *  __8 digit code given to me from the card reader__

 *  __Security number (if I wish to edit anything within my account)__

This of course is not including what I need to know for someone to be able to pay money *into* my account. For
that I would need: 

 *  __Account Number__

 *  __Sort code__

 *  __Bank name and address__

And for my international clients:

 *  __BIC / Swift number__

 *  __IBAN number__

 *  __Bank name and address__

                    ------------------------------                    

Having fallen victim to fraud in the past, I’m very aware of the dangers of it — in my case it was in the
USA where they take your card away from you, you then sign (and tip) after they return it, meaning they have
to hold your card details for a period of time. Something I never feel comfortable with. 

It had nothing to do with someone accessing my account through online means.

                    ------------------------------                    

Being able to access, move around, and be fully aware of my own money whether that be in person at the bank or
more conveniently (and importantly to me), online — is one of our most important rights, as a human being
and as a paying customer.

We line the pockets of the banks by giving them interest on the money we keep with them. In many a scenario we
pay them for other services and privileges also, but the point is we pay them for a service, much like we do
any other.

I would like (us all) to challenge the banking industry. I would ask them this: 

“If you could design a service that allows people to do as they like with their money, that’s safe,
simple, and removes all of the archaic nonsense we’re now simply used to — what would it be?” 

This of course would be backed up by us giving the industry all the help and expertise they need to make such
a thing happen.

Food for thought.