

You’ve heard it all before — success comes after failure, so fail often. Fail quickly. Fail hard. Failure
hurts for everyone, so do it enough times, it’s said, and the teeth will fall out of the bite.

It’s a common enough theme in people’s talks — by smart, wonderful, well-intentioned people — to talk
about setbacks (you get to call them setbacks, once you succeed), and how they learned from or pushed past
them, to reach where they stand today. And this is more-or-less fine, because they are speaking to their own
experience, in the hope that something in there is illuminating and useful for those in the audience.

Where this kind of framing crosses over into shaky ground is when we begin asking for, demanding, requiring
others to be burned by mistakes. To glorify the act of failing so much that it becomes a badge you wear, so
you can say to those not doing as well, “Well, they just haven’t failed enough times yet.”

Our own tolerance for risk is a gift. Not everyone gets the same wiggle-room we have, or the same ability to
bounce back from a bad turn of events. There are plenty of plausible reasons why someone is more risk-averse
than you:

 *  __You: “So-and-so won’t quit this job they hate.”__ Perhaps they are living month-to-month, and
can’t afford to take any chances.

 *  __You: “So-and-so doesn’t want to form a startup, despite having great ideas.”__ Perhaps they have
to care for kids, or a sick pet, or elderly parents, that they have to plan their days around.

 *  __You: “So-and-so doesn’t know how to code.”__ Perhaps they don’t feel comfortable (say, if
they’re a woman in a men-dominated office) and want to be around people who won’t make sexist
characterizations.

 *  __You: “So-and-so doesn’t know how to use the internet. I’ve been using it to talk to other people
online since AOL.”__ Perhaps they didn’t have the disposable income that you or your parents had. Maybe
they spent their time after school helping out at their parents’ restaurant.

Since when did this become weakness? Maybe these people’s biggest problem is needing more courage or less
self-doubt, or maybe they’re just playing for entirely different stakes. If you don’t know for sure, then
this is a failure of empathy.

It’s a kind of mistake you should not get used to making.