

I always keep two books on my nightstand. Right now, I’m trundling through Anna Karenina (my first Tolstoy!)
and rereading a 2011 issue of Lapham’s Quarterly titled [The
Future](http://www.laphamsquarterly.org/magazine/the-future.php). It’s a way to make accidental
juxtapositions and see connections that I wouldn’t have come up with on my own.

Timo Arnall recently wrote about [the problems with ‘invisible
design’](http://www.elasticspace.com/2013/03/no-to-no-ui). It not only questions the myth of the intuitive,
but also argues eloquently for the legible. (It doesn’t hurt that it draws upon lots of prior design
literature, which we could all stand to do more of.) The piece got shared widely online and was met with
surprise and controversy.

Now, here’s some juxtaposition (emphasis mine):

> It turns out that changing
> behaviour is a way to subsequently change attitudes; this is entirely counter the thinking behind many smart
> systems, which are predicated on feedback loops delivering information to people, whose attitudes then change,
> and who then choose to change their behaviour accordingly. Instead, behaviour change happens through changing
> behaviour, and then attitudes.
> __It is not enough to simply “make the invisible, visible”, to use the already well-worn phrase in urban
> informatics.__ But change might happen through creating convenient, accessible ways to try something
> different, and then multiplying that through social proof and network effects, reinforcing through feedback.
> (This means all those smart meters are a complete waste of time and money, and will eventually have to be
> uninstalled.)

That was from Dan Hill’s piece about [‘smart cities’ and active
citizenship](http://www.cityofsound.com/blog/2013/02/on-the-smart-city-a-call-for-smart-citizens-instead.html).
It takes Timo’s arguments for legibility and extrapolates it to more smartness—but guess what? Dan posted
it *before* Timo’s piece. I was lucky to make the connection between them only because I’d read Dan’s
entry a week prior.

This particular kind of serendipity—remembering and seeing connections between unrelated works—ignores
many distinctions. It doesn’t matter whether something is new or old, whether it was published in the New
Yorker or on a blog, whether it was written by a designer or scientist or urban planner. Your act of
*reading*—jumping from point A to point B—creates a wormhole between the two. It lets you time travel.