

# 50:50

Along with [Alastair Lockie](http://twitter.com/larister), I run a Code Club at Queens Park Primary School,
Brighton. Every Wednesday after school, the kids learn how to make games and more recently, how to make
websites. It’s great to see them having fun and being creative on computers.

I originally decided to get involved with Code Club due to the lack of education in creative computing. Kids
are taught how to use Microsoft Office products, but are not encouraged to explore and create within a digital
space. That’s all changing now.

The UK Government have noticed that they aren’t doing enough to teach kids how to code in schools. In 2014,
the [new National
Curriculum](http://www.education.gov.uk/schools/teachingandlearning/curriculum/nationalcurriculum2014) will
come into play, and it makes one major change. A new course called “Computing” will replace “ICT”.
Kids will begin learning how to program and create things on computers. What’s more, schools will make
gifted and talented kids “Digital Leaders”, who will help teachers and pupils with computing within
lessons. This makes me very happy!

So now I ask myself, will we still need Code Clubs, when kids have so many other opportunities to learn how to
code? And my answer is yes, we still need them. Here’s why:

No matter where you get your stats from, the ratio of men to women in the digital industries is far from
equal. According to the [A List Apart Survey, 2011](http://archive.aneventapart.com/alasurvey2011/00.html),
just 18% of people in the web industry are women. There’s no reason why women can’t do just as well as men
in these industries, and I believe our work suffers from this gross imbalance as diversity is important. It
both brings out the best in people and better reflects the society we are designing for.

I haven’t personally noticed any considerable discrimination against women in our industry, and since women
are just as fit for jobs as men in this line of work, I can only attribute this imbalance to stereotyping and
self-perpetuation; many women don’t apply for these jobs because they don’t think it to be a job for
women.

My Code Club has 26 kids who show up each week. 13 of them are boys, and 13 are girls. One of these girls says
she will run a web development company when she grows up, and she’s very talented. Besides making Code Club
seem exciting in an assembly I gave to the kids, I did nothing to encourage any demographic to join the club.
The fact that we have a 50:50 split is testament to the unjust bias in our industry.

I hope that by showing kids coding is exciting, creative and engaging, we can slowly address this imbalance.
These kids will grow up with the knowledge that you don’t have to be a geek to be a digital creative, and
that the industry isn’t just for men. It might take a couple of generations before we see any meaningful
change, but I’m prepared to wait.

[—Josh Emerson](http://joshemerson.co.uk)